one of the basic things that we should know is how to run a shell script.
So when you created there are different ways you could run it,
you can run it through absolute path,
or there's another one that's called relative Path.
So absolute path is if,
let's suppose,
if you are standing right at the first step off a steer's and you have to pick up something
on the very last year in the top,
you have to actually either shoot from the first year all the way to the last year on top
and grab that thing that you're trying to grab or there's another one.
Another way is relative path.
The relative pat is that you actually walk up to the steer and then grab that thing that
you wanted to grab the same way.
Um,
absolute path and relative pat works.
If you do not know what exactly absolute path and relative pats ar,
I would recommend you that you should,
um,
you know,
try to look it up online and see what they are and how they work.
And,
um,
you'll find tons of article there and make sure your type,
absolute path and Lennox or absolute path and relative path in Lenox as well.
So the way it works is I have my limits machine up.
Let me log into my Lennox machine,
so I have my script right here.
It's called X Y Z Dash Script.
If you notice I am in my slash home slash I of Salt and Slash script directory.
I created a directory called Scripts in My Home Directory on Guy.
Create all my scripts in that directory.
So if I am already in that directory,
I could run the script.
Or if I am not in my directory,
let's say if I just do CD and which directory I'm in,
I'm in slash route.
So the script that I want to run it's just a test group that I created earlier.
That's a few tight,
that script name X y Z Dash script,
and when you hit enter,
you'll see it says,
Bash the script.
Name Command not found.
Why?
Because the Lenox operating system is trying to find that script and slash root directory,
and I do not have that script in slash root directory,
so I would have to specify the absolute path to run the script and the absolute path would
be just the same way as if you are standing at the bottom of the stairs and then you have
to fetch something from the top of the stairs.
Then you actually through some kind of means or like a stick or something,
and you could grab it.
So the same way you could specify the entire path,
which is slash home my user directory scripts and now the name of the script.
Now when I run the script,
I'll hit.
Enter and you will see is just the script that is actually echo out or print.
Hello,
World on screen.
How does this created?
I will cover that in the later lectures,
but just to focus.
This is how you need to run a script using absolute path.
Now what if you are in a relative path,
which is that you are already in home?
I of Salt and Scripts directory See you CD into that directory,
you do pwd and you'll see Pat is the complete paths Now,
Now the script name is again when you do Alice,
my cell tr I have the script X y Z script.
Now,
when you run this group now script and hit Enter it still cannot find it.
Why?
Because when you are inside off a directory,
you will always have to specify that you want to run the script but than this same
directory.
And that is the relative path.
And to do that,
you have to specify dot,
slash and then the name off the scrip you could hit tab the auto complete.
So now you hit enter and you'll see it ran.
So keep that in mind.
There are two ways you can run the script one through absolute path and want to the
relative path.
If you are,
let's say in slash home directory and now you want to run the script.
You could still specify the entire past lying home starting my user directory.
Or you could just simply start from the director you are in.
So you are in Iove solve.
From from this home onward,
I have saw scripts and the script name hit enter and you see it works here,
too,
because you you have to let the opening system know where your script exactly is located.
So that's the basic about scripting how you run it.
So please remember these two main points about running the script